# Simulating-realistic-error-detection-and-correction-by-implementing-Cyclic-Redundancy-Check-CRC-
Cyclic Redundancy Check with Binary symmetric channel Model. – Input: Digital data stream. No. of hops in communication = 1 or 2 (give option to user). Ask user for the crossover probability for binary symmetric channel(s). – Procedure: Consider a digital data stream of 32 or more bits. Tokenise it into 16-bit datawords, change it to polynomial form and perform CRC on each dataword using standard CRC-8=x 8+x 2+x+ 1. Once codeword is formed, use binary symmetric channel to send codewords to the receiver end i.e., now bits will be flipped with crossover probability (p) and they will remain as such with probability 1−p for one hop, similarly repeat it for 2 hops. Now, at receiver end decode the received codewords to check if the data is corrupted or not. To generate an event A with probability p, generate a random no. x between 0 and 1, then if (x ≤ p) perform event A else don’t perform it. In this case, event is defined as flipping of bit from 0 to 1 or vice-versa. – Output: Digital data stream that was fed to the system, codeword formed for each dataword at the sender site, codeword received at the receiver after one or two hops (as selected by user) pass through binary symmetric channel, whether error is detected or not by performing CRC on the given codeword, if error is detected then return message ‘Discard’ else extract the dataword from the codeword received and represent it in digital form.
